veganism failed it failed as a political
movement
because it had political problems those
political problems
had political solutions when you look
back at what happened with veganism in
the last five years in the last seven
years
all right the problem was not the diet
and the problem was not a lack
of diet advice from people like myself
isil has done nothing for veganism
absolutely nothing he criticizes and
puts down other
vegans but he himself hasn't done
anything
just just cut to the chase all right he
insults
ex-beacons for quicken veganism
but do you know why people put veganism
it's because of diet troubles these
people obviously feel that their vegan
diet
is making them unhealthy and unwell oh
my god
i don't have all day come on let's cut
to the chase but instead of
giving them diet advice isil just calls
these ex-vegans
stupid for not being vegan anymore
and he talks about how these people are
immoral
and unethical what god can't put to the
chase
but he fails to meet even the basic
standards
of a vegan youtuber when maddie
lindberner quit veganism
criticizing her diet but what did ozil
do
he made a video insulting maggie
lindberger's
appearance cape town south africa i
noticed that you don't talk to any of
the local inhabitants in any of the
places
you visit or live did you have any
relationships with any african people in
africa
i didn't see a single black person not
even in the background
i have never wanted my youtube channel
to resemble
an academic lecture i want to give it to
you raw i wanna and
whether it's my daughter watching this
or mine
it's something else that i'm really
going for here i'm not trying to
reproduce what you get in a business
meeting or an academic lecture
no you shouldn't curse all the time you
shouldn't be out of control
you shouldn't be insulting to people all
the time but there's a time and a place
for those things too
and that's all part of the rough and
tumble of life so many of you guys have
recommended this place and i'm super
excited to try it and we are also here
with my friend jurgen he messaged me on
instagram
yesterday he was like oh my gosh oh my
gosh i can't believe you're in cape town
he's like
he was like i'm going to florida next
week like i have to meet you guys i was
like
yes like let's go to lunch so now we're
here and we're gonna have some lunch
[Music]
please consider taking an interest in
local languages
politics history and culture in bali or
anywhere else
maybe start by at least reading the
local newspaper
in english isil actually told me through
email
that he thought vegan james's diet
advice
is stupid
[Music]
butterfly in the sky i can go twice as
high
take a look it's in a book a reading
rainbow you cannot expect
human beings to just give up their own
health
and longevity for the sake of other
animals
just cut to the chase if you can't take
care of yourself
you can't take care of others if isil
can prove
that a vegan diet is healthier than any
other diet
then he has a point but he hasn't done
that
come on man cut to the chase i've talked
to people from the whole range
the whole spectrum of the um
freely rattle for phenomenon i've talked
to true believers i've talked to people
who lost their faith
i've talked to people who uh
participated you know in person and
events in thailand
people who used to be leaders and um who
went from being leaders to becoming
critics
we've definitely come to a point in this
phenomenon where people are starting to
look back at it as something that's in
the past tense
they're writing the history so to speak
of the wonder that was
freely the banana girl and her
short-lived but
um seemingly
important and influential uh dietary
slash political movement i think i typed
in something like
weight loss diet or something to do with
weight loss
on youtube obviously while i was so
[ __ ] in the head
on the verge of death still trying to
lose weight
and that's when freely popped up and
that's how i found out about her
i ended up going into a major
relapse with my anorexia um and when i
say
major i mean that i was i'm surprised
that i didn't die
um and i and i really mean that i was
eating
absolutely nothing you know i'm sure i
was still
vegan but and i remember losing
something like
50 pounds in just a few months i think
it was
50 pounds in three months and
remembering i'm only four
foot ten so i only weigh
right now i only weigh about 115 pounds
it was around that time where i found
freely the banana girl now if you don't
know who free the banana girl
is she has a very
interesting way of promoting veganism
for a brief period
this is very seductive to people the
line between
activist and athlete was blurred
and the notion that the the the great
secret i mean the the great catalyst for
social change in this planet
is happiness is you
is your personal happiness that all you
have to do
is share with the world how happy and
how healthy you are
that's a powerful delusion that appeals
to people at all ages people who feel
powerless
i think there were 16 year olds who were
still in high school who saw that and it
called out to them
they thought that's me that's what i can
do i can put on a bikini
i can tell people that i've cured my
acne
or cured crohn's disease or cured
diabetes or cured schizophrenia
through this diet i can come on and make
these testimonials i can film myself
having fun i can show how happy i am to
ride a bicycle
riding a bicycle does not make you that
happy okay that's ridiculous
that in itself is ridiculous i can talk
about my personal transformation how
five minutes ago
i was a hippie who had no
self-confidence and was shy
and now i'm an athlete with this very
confrontational attitude
this type of because this is part of it
right was this transformation
um that made powerless people feel
powerful on some level i wish i could
say that that spirit
that enthusiasm could be recaptured
could be saved could be channeled
into a more positive a more political uh
more pragmatic
a more genuinely helpful and even dare i
say
a more nutritious form of veganism
um but i don't think it can i think the
wonder that was
freely in the rattle for diet is a
chapter in the history of this movement
as unique and bizarre as the anarcho
primitivist chapter you can search that
my channel you can remember
that that cayman went before uh as
unique and bizarre as the deep ecology
movement that came and went
um one ideology after another comes and
goes i think right now
the abolitionist movement of gary
francione we're seeing it come and go
direct action everywhere i think we've
seen one
fad after another come and go
and um yes a lot of people have powerful
sentiments they want to help they want
to make the world a better place
but they become members of cult-like
movements that
have all the wrong answers because
fundamentally they start
by asking all the wrong questions he
uses their decision to quit
veganism as an excuse to insult them
but he offers zero diet advice
and criticism and just look at his
channel
the past five videos on his channel
isn't even
about veganism he even admitted in cast
videos
that his channel isn't about veganism
it's about his life
[Music]
um and again just being isolated
feeling so lonely like going through
that breakup alone um it just sent me
into a really really dark place mentally
um and the first lockdown was really
really hard for me to get through i
barely got through it really to be
honest with you um
i started to go back to really bad
coping mechanisms
so i was doing a lot of binge eating
during the first lockdown
um again just waking up feeling like
crap
hadn't mentally got over the break up at
all
um again just woke up feeling so lonely
and isolated because
i mean obviously i was isolated in a
physical sense um but also just yeah
like dwelling
dwelling on what was going on in my
personal life
ended up gaining a lot of weight because
of the binge eating i gained about
eight kilograms during the first
lockdown
um had no motivation to work out again
because my mental health had just
plummeted
and i felt really ashamed i felt
really um annoyed at myself you know
that i'd
gone gone back to using food as a crutch
um and as a coping
mechanism you know because i never
wanted to do that again we have this
idiom
in english snowballing
we have the image of a snowball as
something that accelerates
and picks up mass as it rolls downhill
i don't know what kind of hill you're
living on if you've ever seen this in
real life
you know what does it mean for something
to snowball
the vegan movement snowballed for a few
years
i've seen i've seen snowballs roll down
a hill
they speed up an increase in size for a
short time
and soon enough they crash
and break into a thousand tiny pieces
indistinguishable from the rest of the
snow
they melt away into nothingness
yeah what does it really mean for a
movement like veganism
to snowball all right we had some
impetus
we had some momentum we had some
passionate people and veganism for a few
years there
there was the potential to change the
world
but we didn't even change chiang mai we
didn't even change berkeley california
okay veganism failed
it failed as a political movement
because it had political problems
those political problems had political
solutions i took
some time out of my life over a period
of five years
to really talk about those problems and
their solutions
the problems in the vegan movement were
not dietary
the problem with the vegan movement was
not that the diet was wrong
it wasn't that better dietary advice
could solve the problems to be moved
that could have been the difference
between this snowball dissipating away
into nothingness and really
really carrying on to change the world
the young woman you just saw on screen a
couple minutes ago
her name is brianna jackson her problem
was not
diet what would have helped her or what
would have saved her
it's not diet advice
for her veganism was not
a political movement and it wasn't a
diet either it was her religion
she believed in it totally transformed
her sense of who she was her mission and
purpose in life
she wanted to be freely she became a
cult member
and she wanted in her own way to be a
cult leader
also and to some extent for a little
while she succeeded
if the problem was the diet
then the solution would have been when
she quit veganism right when she became
ex-vegan
change the diet solve the problem
go to her instagram account today go
look at her youtube channel
today she's still stuck in the same cult
mentality
she is still trying in her way
to be the next freely she has reduced
her body fat to a shockingly low
percentage she's jacked up the
musculature
on her body to a shocking extent she's
posing
she's flexing she's saying she's a
fitness and diet expert
she's asking you to pay for advice she's
trying to make this her profession
she's trying to make this her career she
lost faith in veganism she left the
vegan movement
right but she still remains committed
to the same kind of cult mentality her
life as you just heard necklace
it's still being haunted by the same
ghosts it's still being destroyed
by the same demons right the problem
never was the diet
and the solution never was the diet
either now
on a larger scale when you look back at
what happened with veganism in the last
five years in the last seven years
all right the problem was not the diet
and the problem was not a lack of diet
advice
from people like myself okay
this channel is not now and never has
been
about offering diet advice this channel
is about my life
and my life is about politics why
because what i care about what i care
about most of all
is the positive difference that i can
make in the world there are a lot
of youtube channels with people making
political
statements this great phrase in english
i stand for i stand with
people making declarations about
politics
that's never interested me okay trading
in abstractions
and moral generalizations you know
uh claims to who can be holier than who
you know i don't want to be right i want
to change the world from my position
of powerlessness whatever the small
difference i
can make may be all right that's where
i'm going to put my effort
that's the difference i'm going to try
to make and yeah you know what
in the last five years last seven years
i was enrolled in a department of asian
studies
at the university of victoria and i
started a youtube channel
called hey jin jungja thinking i was
going to do politics of china
politics of asia on this youtube channel
and that was not as it turned out
the difference that i could make
the opportunity i saw when i looked at
people
gary francione gary yourofsky wayne
cyong
when i looked at the leadership of the
vegan movement
saw this was a movement with tremendous
positive potential
but instead because of bad leadership
it was like an airplane crashing into
the ground
i could see i could see what was coming
and i wish i was wrong but when you look
back
at what happened in the last five years
the last seven years
tragically i was right